This video we're going to go ahead and setup initialization of some data for our application to work
with.
So what I'm gonna do is come in here and let's add in a new package.
I'm going to call it bootstrap. And for those that don't know computer booting up is a very common terminology
that comes from an old saying. I believe it's from the US is to pull yourself up by your bootstraps.
So that's kind of where the origins of that saying are. I'm going to come in here and add in a new class
and just call it bootstrap data.
Go ahead and add that.
And that's gonna implement a command line runner. In a command line runner,
this is an interface that we want to implement.
And this is going to tell Spring. Spring is going to look for instances of this type and want to find
some that's going to go ahead and run them.
So I need to implement a method here so just say command N and implement methods.
And it wants to have that run method implemented and here what I want to do is mark this as a component.
I'm doing this. It tells the Spring Framework to go ahead and detect this as a Spring managed component.
Now I need to use dependency injection.
We have a whole section on dependency injection.
So what I want to do is I'm going to come in here private final and I will say let's start with the
AuthorRepository just keep us in order.
AuthorRepository
and BookRepository.
Then I'm going to do a command N. Constructor and bring those two in. so that sets up the constructor
and what's gonna happen is when Spring implements this component that's going to bring it into the Spring
context.
It will do Dependency Injection into the constructor for an instance of the author repository and also
the book repository.
So let's go ahead and set up a couple authors and books.
Let's do author and we'll call this guy Eric
and we'll say
let's see. What am I missing there?
Empty set of book.
We don't want to do that. So I'm going to modify the author and get rid of the book properties so we're not
going to create an author with a set of books. Just go ahead and get rid of that for now. Gonna be a little
more friendly. And let's create a new book.
I'm curious everybody knows who Eric Evans is. I'm about to give it away here.
This is a classic book, Domain Driven Design.
Did I do the same thing with book?
Let's go and take a look at that. We don't want to have the property there.
So just doing a little refactoring of our objects here.
So we don't have to initialize books and authors for us. Let's go back over the bootstrap and finish that
up. Now that is going to set up a book by that and what we want to do is add in a book to the author
and an author to the book.
And by removing the constructor, it did cause one problem there.
So what we want to do here is this books we want initialize that with a new hash set. So we'll initialize that
property by default.
And we'll do the same on book.
Now what we can do is say Eric get books and we're going to add like so.
And then also on the books object we want to get the authors and add Eric as an author of that book.
Then finally what we can do is save both of those into a repository.
So you want to say author repository save
Eric and then book repository save so that's going to save those into the H2 database.
Now let's also do one more example of those. We add an author. We'll call this Rod.
So we're adding in Rod Johnson here. Rod Johnson is the founder of the Spring Framework. So we'll
call his book NoEJBS, another iconic book. This is the old J2EE. It still scares
me that was changed over a decade ago from J2EE to JEE and companies are still looking for
J2EE developers. I'm just adding in a random value for those.
I'm not gonna actually look that up and now what will I say is do the same thing here.
Rod getBooks. We're gonna add in NoEJB.
And then also we'll take the NoEJB and get authors and we'll add Rod as an author to that. And
then finally let's do this.
I'm also gonna do
so the output account there.
So now if I come in here and what I can do is go to the Spring application. I'm going to start that
up and we should see counsel
output that says the number of books that've been loaded into the database. So you can see here Spring
is initializing. You can see it starting bootstrap and a number of books 1.
So what did we do wrong there.
I'm not sure if you see it but I see it right away there.
I forgot to save Rod.
It's going to help. Helps quite a bit if we actually go in and save the data that we're expecting. So
let me go ahead and restart this and I bet the number of books will increment to 2 this time when we
restart our little Spring Boot application here.
There we go.
That is much better so you can see down on the bottom screen I now have number of books 2.
So I minimized counsel.
Just to recap what we did here, online 13, I'm saying using this component annotation to tell the Spring
Framework that this is a Spring managed component and I'm implementing the interface command line runner
which has the one method that we have to bring in which is the run method which takes a string of arguments
which we don't we're not using at all. But the Spring managed component, we're saying that it's got two properties:
the author repository and the book repository.
And they are final variables.
So we're initializing those inside the constructor which tells the Spring Framework to when it constructs
this bean that it has to inject an instance of author repository and book repository.
So when it starts up, the run myth, that's bean is configured by the Spring Framework.
And then what we are doing is we are creating two author objects and two book objects and we are going
using the repository methods to save them.
And underneath the covers, Spring Data JPA is utilizing  Hibernate to save these two in memory H2
database.